GIT

0. Make and assign issue
1. Make a new branch (see below)
2. Write code
3. Commit with issue number (see below)
4. Push branch
5. Open PR
6. Review PR
7. Squash commits (see below)
8. Push squashed commit to master

How to properly make a new branch:

0. Check out the master branch.
   EX: git checkout master

1. Check out a new branch with your initials and a brief dash-separated
   description of your change.
   EX: git checkout -b mb-fix-xyz-bug
       (assuming you are Maxwell "Emacs" Bernstein)

How to write a good commit message:

1. Use the first line for a sensible and brief description of your changes. Make
   it somewhat specific. Try and make sure it starts with a verb and is present
   tense. Keep it <= 50 characters.
   EX: Add all the images from the hackathon.

2. Use the lines after the first line (and a blank line) to give some more
   details about the changes you made. Perhaps give a rationale, a shout-out,
   etc.
   EX: Thank you to Logan Garbarini for the amazing shots, and to Max Bernstein
   for the dope picture of Sam Purcell.

How to squash and rebase commits:

1. Check out a new branch with the name of your current branch plus suffix
   -squashed. Make sure to use -b so that it clones your current branch.
   EX: git checkout -b mb-fix-xyz-bug-squashed

2. Rebase the squashed branch so that it only contains one commit with all of
   your branch's changes.
   EX: git rebase -i HEAD ~n
       (where n is the number of commits you wrote)

3. Rebase the squashed branch back into master after fetching and rebasing
   other people's updates.
   EX: git checkout master
       git fetch origin master
       git rebase origin/master
       git rebase mb-fix-xyz-bug-squashed

CODE

0. Indentation with 4 spaces
   0a. Makes nested things easier to read
1. 80 columns
2. Braces on the next line
   2a. Braces
3. Function call / control flow spacing as seen in style-after.c. Braces on
   same line, else on different line, no space before function definition or
   call
4. Block comments only
5. Only really important block comments should look like this:
       /*
        * thing thing thing
	*/
   Others should look like this:
       /* thing thing thing */

COMMUNICATION

1. Non-code discussions on Slack
2. Code discussions in issue or pull request
